## Data Dump of Concepts for my own reference (Pictures have been removed) 

Data Stories Gallery

Excel comma separated values: csv
—load csv within power bi and tableau for this

To undo in power BI 
Hit the x … 

Search slicer…
Click the … on the slicer and click search or hit ctrl F ….
Doesn’t work for numeric data?




-hiding show totals in power bi:


Select a color and convert to hex code:
https://imagecolorpicker.com/en

-Export Power BI reports to Power Points
-how to change data source in power bi
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mqFA9t482oM

-write all thing I learned in the Maven Dashboard


Have to do manually and add each csvs. How to automate this??





Vertical page navigator by adjusting grid layout:






Change page size


Power BI - How to add Background Images and adjust visual transparency













Add spacing to bar graphs in Power BI



Filtering in the data view 
–affects the data in the visualization 
Doesn’t change the source data
—------------------------
Only work email address works for Power BI
So you can share within an organization you are in
/Office 365 E3 or Office 365 E5 – free trial


Right click a value of a chart and it navigates you to the visual …. Of that chart … Because the on-object feature is in preview, you need to turn it on. You'll also be turning on the new Visualizations and Format pane functionality changes. See the updated Format and Visualizations panes in Power BI article for details.
In Power BI Desktop, select File > Options and settings > Options > Preview Features > On-object interaction.


—-------------------------------------------------------
Stylistic option - Power BI

Great Manchester - Text Wrap is on
—---------Alt text – used for people with certain disabilities


Collapsing ribbons

Format and align/distribute


Bring forward bring 1 instance at a time
Bring to front brings all the way to the front
—--- Format Painter




Column tools when clicking on columns — default summarization 
—------ 
If you are formatting dates, you are formatting the defaults which will be used in all visualizations 
However if in a particular visualizations and a particular column, you can change the number of decimal places
Custom number and date formatting:




Go to the relationship tab,
Custom formatting in the property panes


It is the same as expand next level

Drill Up to go up the hierarchy
— show next levels 
Two down arrows 
—- just show one level / of all data. Ex: Quarter data from all time frame

Which will be exported as a csv - right click and hit export 

All files include everything (csv etc) vs all excel files


Drill down drills to one specific element when selected
— and it will keep the drill down unless you hit on it again
—------------Visual table

More useful for charts because it lets you see the underlying data
Matrixes allow you to drill down the hierarchy whereas tables does not
—---


Date and region name on the same axis
—you can drill down on 2006 for example and then see the quarters within 2006


Switch themes for reports

Not enough themes? You can go to the theme gallery to choose from a variety of different themes

Browse for themes use a file — with hex codes
—--------------------------- 
Customize themes


Continuous vs categorical (1995 to 2015 or 1995 and each separate year)

Label density: 54% 

Plot area background to add background pictures

Format  — edit interactions - for that particular view only
—--------- As default - highlight is enabled - although it might not show - 
Filter is enabled so that you can use other visualizations to filter 
None mean that specific view won’t be affected

None doesn’t affect lower visualization


Sometimes these interactions might not show because there’s not enough vertical space between the visualizations

Using ctrl key to also select South Yorkshire
— cannot use shift to select a range though
-unselect edit interactions to remove the icons — but the interactions are still there

– how to make exact dates in Power BI similar to Tableau


Section 17: Part 2 - Level 5:
Blank Query



Undo an action or change it




365 = how many rows, 




100% stacked column charts are different than stacked column chart

Difference between new columns and new measures?

—- how to sort ascending in power bi (no options to sort like in the table)




Sort when column is not available then add to the tooltip



….
Can’t drag to create values in power bi like in Tableau but you can type ‘ ‘ and choose the values

The date order is messed up





Some doesn’t have it







Visual tool tip … page information … page underneath type



To copy text from tableau to power bi, choose a generic font like calibri
…..
Show hide button in power bi using bookmarks … note that you have to separate it to two buttons





Format without legend




—-------dynamic zone visibility in power bi
-use bookmarks but this is not great for maintenance

Layer order


—------------------------------------
Sometimes to change the height and width of the chart in power bi
You have to make sure that you leave some space underneath the chart in order for increasing the height to work


The all visuals will taken to affect. I had it selected to selected visuals initially so it didn’t work since it would be a one time selection




Create hypothesis


Switch the field to base on while preserving the conditional formatting
—duplicate first to reuse the formatting

-add animation to power bi? 

Blue tick marks are power bi - certified


There’s no data view


Had to be text to work



Change to date to be able to sort ascending

You can copy other charts from other power bi reports into the current one
-place all charts into the same page then view and reorder them

Lock aspect ratio to : keep the consistent when resizing



—---
Make it so that even if there are no values in that period it won’t be filtered out





Measure tool to change this to %


The Time (UTC) has many times within the same dates so it didn’t work









How to view the arguments of the functions in Power BI






What is Power BI template and how to replace connections??



Shape Map

— combo charts in Power BI..
Field parameter:



.. unrelated … clipchamp for screen capturing??





To load the data from the connections file —- choose direct query 

acc X acc_y acc z AccelerometerMeasurementNumber BarometerMeasurementNumber BarometerP BarometerT ButtonPressed device_id ESP32StatusUpdate FanSpeed gyr_y gyr_z HeadTvpeFitted imu_temp LastTreatmentMode LastTreatmentPower LedPower ModeButtonPressedTime PowerSetting ResettableFaultID

Sample SCS1Percent SCS2Percent session id ShotCount STS1Normalized STS2Normalized StsTemperature TimeButtonPressed Timestamp








To remove multiple selections, click on cut after multi-selecting



Basically duplicating … create a parameter first thougha and copy the formulas from the one you want to duplicate

Use ctrl + shift to make this quicker to delete … still have to use cut though




What is the difference between layer order and tab order









Optimize tab can help you optimize workbook speed
—if the workbook runs too slow, you can open a separate task to multi-task and saves time



Format measure to percentages in Power BI






…










IMU Temp: 



—-











-prebuilt power bi visualizations









Load more to ensure all data is showing … in this case the column results







Filter and then parse:








Area chart vs stacked area chart. Stacked area charts doesn’t have labels on the outside. Only inside

Considering using axis
If there are too many data labels


You can only do vertical texts with shapes





Doesn’t really work.

How to change data type …





Use median in this case






Delete?

I’m missing the name of 
. that’s why the picture above is wrong. 



— you can also use format painter to paint the conditional formatting of the columns


There are two different backgrounds. One in the visual and one in general (only the general one works in this case)














If 50 or above for the transparency then it won’t have the canvas border. 49 or below then it shows the outlines like the pic above. 

Responsive – or not would allow you to change the x-axis labels size for the trend over time, in this case

Max area width affects the labels in this case


Remove a visual to reverse the get more visuals. 







Click the filter up at the top to turn on the filter pane











Drag this circle shit to chage the hex color. Also change manually for red green and blue



Difference between this card vs the card with lightning


Merge queries as new







There can be only one white arrow to sort

—--------

Values only versus values & totals




Sort multiples














Change visual to stacked bars would solve it










—---
Write R script and then: 
use chatgpt to convert r script to power bi dax expressions -> better way to prompt engineer



Entering data


—-----------

Format painting carries the entire parameter format over




Apply all slicers button


Only apply when you make the selections


—embedding power bi: click on share and then click on powerpoint






Fit to width vs fit to page. Fit to width might cause issues if you hide the filter panel etc as now the width room is larger so it overflows the bottom view












Detect data type in power query


https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/create-reports/power-bi-images-tables








let
     BinaryToPbiImage = (BinaryContent as binary) as text =›
let
     Base64 = "data: image/jpeg;base64, " & Binary.ToText (BinaryContent, BinaryEncoding. Base64)
in
     Base64
in
     BinaryToPbiImage



To replicate without starting from scratch in thef case of the live data set connections then simply paste the visuals into another report with the columns already named and manipulated in the same way
—-----------------------
Unpivoting a table in power bi:


Kinda similar to pivoting to a long format in R
https://radacad.com/pivot-and-unpivot-with-power-bi
This would be done within the transform data tab in Power Bi




Commenting on Power BI dax expressions with the – –









Additional filters



Buttons options:



Visual tooltip for viewing info





Adding image url and use them as tooltip.


Sync slicer and sync tooltips


Conditional format column of a table by right clicking and hit data bars













Color multiple with the parameters. 

When you rename the datasource or replace it with one with the same columns. The colors for the parameters might be gone so do the step above to save time








Change padding for maps




Hit more color to prompt it to the recent colors


Change axis type to continuos - fucking wild





Zoom slider and don’t summarize??? What’s the difference










Change to cross filtering




Maintaining layer orders






Reset to defaults to enable dynamic titles again



Text wrapping allows you to view the fill words and for it to go down a line


Embedding pdf in power bi:
https://www.google.com/search?q=embed+pdf+document+in+power+bi&rlz=1C1GCEB_enUS1059US1059&oq=embed+pdf+document+in+power+bi&gs_lcrp=EgZjaHJvbWUyBggAEEUYOTIICAEQABgWGB4yCAgCEAAYFhgeMg0IAxAAGIYDGIAEGIoFMg0IBBAAGIYDGIAEGIoFMg0IBRAAGIYDGIAEGIoF0gEJMTQyNTlqMWoxqAIAsAIA&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8#kpvalbx=_N3yPZeuaJuKt5NoP78uouAo_25






Visual header tooltips
https://www.getpowerhoused.com/blog/are-you-using-tooltips-in-your-power-bi-chart-headers





———
Drill through to view another page based on the 
based on the selection by right clicking. New yorkshire in the example below. Note that region name has to be added as a drill through in the other page




Power Query Editor - View - Preview  



Transform vs Add column in power query editor


transform work with existing column
Add column make the transformation in a new column and keeps the original column




Filtering or “slicering” data in the power query editor preserves the data. In the model view of the report then it doesn’t preserve the filtering. Only in the power query editor

This is a permanent change that will be register into the steps - unlike filtring in an excel sheet for example


Right clicking to get data - another way



Keeping and removing rows after sorting:



Merge vs append queries: 




Merging queries:


Check join kind
Merge queries expand the table horizontally (might be exception with outer joins etc)
Where as append queries expand the table vertically (usually the column names are the same - think of it more like a union in tableau)
Merge add columns – append add rows


Can merge as new or  just merge queries only




Unhiding hidden tables



Drag from one table to another to create relationships:




For numbers you can do adding subtracting etc.




Measure doesn’t give you an individual row , it gives the totality of the data. Where as columns give individual rows







Hiding and unhiding fields?


Power query - right click on column —- transform — clean, trim etc. 


Creating folders for power queries





Using user











Focus mode: to view visual in a larger view





On-object interaction








Convert from Q&A to standard visualizatoin






Allow you to add income etc.
Median age etc. 


Hierarchies:



It’s the arrows that go down and up


Right click and create hierarchies:

Change levels here:






You cannot categorized items as part of a hierarchy or in a hierarchy


Quick measure:




Forecast:



Error Bar:     - like margin of errors??



Removing outliers -
There is no secret to removing outliers 
You just have to determine visually and then 
Restrict them out


Clustering










Anomaly detection: only works on line charts visuals   —- also only works if there is only one line








Clicking on smart narrative in the visualization pane will give you a narrative of all the visualizations within the page 


If you right click however then it will just provide a smart narrative for that visual


Smart narrative will also change with slicers and so on




Can also add new values that change interactively




Groupings and binnings








New group - bin type

Would be useful if I had done it for the overtime data within a session

Not considering as an influencer but takes into account for granularity — or the amount of data to investigate






Add to page to add visualizations to the page:






Power bi report builder - paginated report 



